.TH LIBYOGRT 7 2007-02-28 "" "LIBYOGRT"

.SH NAME
libyogrt \- Your One Get Remaining Time library.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yogrt.h>
.sp
.fi
.sp
Link with -lyogrt.

.SH DESCRIPTION
libyogrt provides a simple API by which a parallel application can
determine the amount of time remaining before it will be terminated.
libyogrt is designed as a layer above the system scheduler, allowing an
application compiled against libyogrt to query its remaining time
with Flux, Moab, SLURM, LCRM, and possibly other systems in the future.  The
system administrator installs the correct version of libyogrt on each
system to match that system's resource manager, so no effort on the part
of the application programmer is required to move between systems
with different resource mangers.

yogrt_remaining() is the libyogrt call of primary interest.  yogrt_remaining()
returns the amount of wall clock time remaining, in seconds, in the
application's resource allocation.

Performance is paramount in the design of yogrt_remaining().  To achieve the
speed required by high performance applications, yogrt_remaining() talks to
the resource manager only rarely and maintains a cache of the remaining time.
Most calls to yogrt_remaining() will only involve a time() library call and
simple arithmetic to determine the current remaining time.

.SH INTERNALS

Most people will not need to change libyogrt's caching behavior, but should
it be desirable, libyogrt provides both environment variables and library
calls for adjusting its internal update intervals.

By default, libyogrt will only ask the resource manager how much time remains
in the resource allocation if time elapsed since the the successful query of
the resource manager is greater than or equal to "interval1" seconds or
"interval2" seconds.  A third variable, "interval2_start", determines
which of the two intervals will be used.

Normally, "interval1" will be used early in the run, while the time remaining
in the resource allocation is greater than to "interval2_start" seconds.  Then,
when the time remaining is less than or equal to "interval2_start" seconds,
libyogrt will use "interval2" to determine how often it needs to query
the resource manager.

In other words, "interval2_start" is the number of seconds before the end
of the job at which libyogrt switches from using "interval1" to using
"interval2".

The values of these three variables can be queried with the library calls
yogrt_get_interval1(), yogrt_get_interval2(), yogrt_get_interval2_start().
The values may be changed with the library calls, yogrt_set_interval1(),
yogrt_set_interval2(), yogrt_set_interval2_start().

The yogrt_get_* and yogrt_set_* calls may be called more than once if
an application wishes to adjust the intervals several times.

libyogrt also has a "fudge_factor" internal variable.  Some resource managers
are not entirely accurate in their remaining time predictions.  For instance,
LCRM may kill jobs up to 60 seconds before the reported end of the resource
allocation.  To compensate for this inaccuracy, yogrt_remaining() actually
reports the time given by the resource manager minus "fudge_factor".  For LCRM,
the fudge_factor is 60 seconds.  If LCRM reports 300 seconds left in your
resource allocation, yogrt_remaining() will report 240 seconds (300 \- 60).  Each
backend may have a different "fudge_factor" value.  Users may query and set
the fudge_factor value using yogrt_get_fudge_factor() and
yogrt_set_fudge_factor().

Even libyogrt's internally cached remaining time variable may
by set using the function yogrt_set_remaining().  Keep in mind that
libyogrt will continue to count down from the new cached remaining time,
and after the appropriate interval1 or interval2 has passed after calling
yogrt_set_remaining(), libyogrt will contact the resource manager for
a new remaining time update.

The libyogrt library can print debugging messages to stderr
by setting its debugging level to an integer value greater
than 0.  Larger values will result in more verbose debugging messages (the
current highest verbosity level is 3).  Users may query and set
the debug value using yogrt_set_debug() and yogrt_get_debug().

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
Before the first call is made into libyogrt, the values of "interval1",
"interval2", "interval2_start", and "fudge_factor" may be initialized
with the environment variables "YOGRT_INTERVAL1", "YOGRT_INTERVAL2", 
"YOGRT_INTERVAL2_START", and "YOGRT_FUDGE_FACTOR", respectively.

In addition, the libyogrt library can print debugging messages to stderr
by setting the "YOGRT_DEBUG" environment variable to an integer value greater
than 0.  Larger values will result in more verbose debugging messages (the
current highest verbosity level is 3).

Finally, the environment variable "YOGRT_REMAINING" presets libyogrt's
remaining time cache.  The value of YOGRT_REMAINING should be an integer
representing a period of time in seconds.  By setting this variable, the first
time you call yogrt_remaining(), libyogrt will use the time specified in
YOGRT_REMAINING rather than contacting the resource manager.  Later,
when yogrt_remaining() is called more than "interval1" (or possibly "interval2")
seconds, yogrt_remaining() will beginning querying the resource manager as
normal.  This has the interesting  possibility of allowing the user to
completely avoid talking to the resource manager.

For instance, if one were to set the environment variables
"YOGRT_REMAINING=3600" (one hour), "YOGRT_INTERVAL1=100000000" (essentially
never query the resource manager), and "YOGRT_INTERVAL2_START=0" (never use
interval2), libyogrt would count down from 3600 seconds on its own.

(Be aware that the countdown starts the first time any call is made into
the libyogrt library, not when the application begins running.  So if you
plan to exploit YOGRT_REMAINING, you probably want to call yogrt_remaining()
once right at the start of your application to get the clock started on the
cache.)

.SH EXAMPLE

Consider the following values of the three internal libyogrt
variables (and these are, in fact, the compiled-in default values):

interval1 = 900
.br
interval2 = 300
.br
interval2_start = 1800

And let us assume a parallel job with a resource allocation limit of two hours.

When the application begins its run, no matter how many times the application
calls yogrt_remaining(), libyogrt will only query the resource manager
a maximum of every "interval1" seconds, which is 900 seconds (15 minutes).
After 1.5 hours have elapsed, the "interval2_start" is triggered because
fewer than 1800 seconds (30 minutes) remain.  At this point, no matter how
often the application calls yogrt_remaining(), libyogrt will only query the
resource manager a maximum of every "interval2" seconds, which is 300
seconds (5 minutes).

.SH NOTES
yogrt_remaining() may only be called by task 0 of a parallel application.  When
called from tasks other than task 0, yogrt_remaining() will return -1.  See
"man yogrt_remaining" for details.

libyogrt is available as a shared library only.

libyogrt exports Fortran-compatible symbols for all library calls.  See
the individual man pages for more information.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR yogrt_remaining (3),
.BR yogrt_set_interval1 (3),
.BR yogrt_set_interval2 (3),
.BR yogrt_set_interval2_start (3),
.BR yogrt_set_debug (3),
.BR yogrt_set_remaining (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval1 (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval2 (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval2_start (3),
.BR yogrt_get_debug (3)
