.TH YOGRT_REMAINING 3 2007-02-28 "" "LIBYOGRT"

.SH NAME
yogrt_remaining \- Return the wall clock time remaining in a parallel
resource allocation. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <yogrt.h>
.sp
.BI "int yogrt_remaining(void)"
.fi
.sp
Link with -lyogrt.

.SH "FORTRAN EXTENSION"
INTEGER REMAINING
.br
REMAINING = IYOGRT_REMAINING()

.SH DESCRIPTION
Return the number of seconds remaining in the current resource allocation.
(This call may ONLY be used by process rank zero of a parallel job.)

yogrt_remaining()'s goal is to unify and simplify the process of retrieving
the remaining time available to a job regardless of the
underlying system resource manager (e.g. SLURM, Moab, etc.).

Performance is a very important design criteria for yogrt_remaining().
To acheive the required speed, yogrt_remaining() talks to the resource manager
only rarely and caches the remaining time.  Most calls to yogrt_remaining()
will only involve a time() library call and simple arithmetic to determine
the current remaining time.

For more information on libyogrt's internals and its configurable caching
settings, see
.BR libyogrt (7).

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If called from task zero of a parallel job, returns the number of seconds
remaining in the resource allocation.  If libyogrt is unable to query the
underlying resource manager, it will return INT_MAX (#include <limits.h>).
Since INT_MAX is the largest possible integer, there is no risk of the
application terminating prematurely.  Most applications will have no need
to test for INT_MAX.

Returns -1 when called from any task other than task zero.

.SH NOTES
yogrt_remaining() may only be called from task zero for several reasons.
First, some resource managers only allow task zero or processes
on the first node in the resource allocation to query the remaining time.
This policy avoids unnecessary load on the resource manager.

Furthermore, if yogrt_remaining time were allowed in all tasks, the
values it returned would likely be skewed across the tasks.  This would
likely result in applications getting into undesireable states where some
tasks have begun shutting down but others are continuing to run.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libyogrt (7),
.BR yogrt_set_interval1 (3),
.BR yogrt_set_interval2 (3),
.BR yogrt_set_interval2_start (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval1 (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval2 (3),
.BR yogrt_get_interval2_start (3)
